《好事不如无》
Good thing is not as good as nothing

赵州禅师讲：“拜佛是好事，好事不如无。”
Zen Buddhist Monk Zhaozhou said:"Bowing to buddha is a good thing, which is not as good as doing nothing."
拜佛是好事，好事怎么不如无事呢？
How can doing a good thing, like bowing to Buddha, is not as good as doing nothing?

天天念经、拜佛、修行，肯定是好事。
There is no doubt that changting sutras, bowing to Buddha, pratictiing Buddhism are good things. 
我们拜佛、念经、念佛、用功，都是为了成就功德，而不是为了追求外在的形相：拜佛的形相、念经的形相、用功的形相。
We do all these things, bowing to Buddha, changting sutras, changting Buddha's names and practicing Buddhism to accomplish merits rather than taking care of your outside appearance: 
the apperance of how you bow to Buddha, chant sutras or practice.
不是要给别人留下印象：这个人很用功、很精进、很努力。
Instead, we are not intended to leave others such impression that this guy is very deligent.

大部分的人都很注意自己的形象，总想给别人留下好的印象；
Most people are very concerned about their image, and they always want to make a good impression on others.
要让人家觉得这个人很灵活、很聪明、很努力、很会代人着想、特吃苦耐劳……
To make people feel that this person is very flexible, very smart, diligent, very considerate, particularly hard-working, et al. 
他注意的只是怎么做才能给人留下好印象，怎么做这种好印象才能持续，只是追求一个相上的成就。
What they care about is how to make a good impression and continue the impact. Their pursuits are merely the achievement of ‘appearance.’

我们常常讲不要追求果相,这个就叫做追求果相。
We often say,” Do not chase after the reward.” And this, is the so-called chasing-after-the-reward.
# (果相另几种翻译：retribution, effect, or the mark of effect)
追求果相，就是追求眼前的东西，就不能持续和长久，不可能有大成就，所以说：“念佛是好事，好事不如无。”
Chasing-after-the-reward, is pursuing what lies right in front of us. It will not sustain or last long, and cannot bring us great achievements. 
Therefore, it’s said,” Chanting Buddha is good indeed, yet, a deed inferior to Abhava”.  (Or: Chanting is a good deed, a deed inferior to Abhava.)

不如无”，就是说不能追求形相，我们要追求的是究竟的果报，是长远的，根本的利益-佛果。
“Inferior to Abhava”: that is to say, we shall not focus on the appearance. What we shall pursue is the ultimate outcome, the long-term and fundamental benefit— Buddhahood. 
